Story Recapped here. Today, I'm
going to explain an adventure,
sci-fi, thriller film called “War of the
Worlds.” Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
Ray works as a loading dock crane operator
in New York. He's a carefree man, enjoying
his life free of responsibilities. Unfortunately,
Ray is also a deadbeat divorcee and the father to
a teenager and a young girl. Ray heads home
from work and finds his ex-wife, Catherine,
and her new husband waiting impatiently
in front of his house. It seems that Ray
has forgotten that their teenage son,
Robbie, and young daughter, Rachel,
would be staying with him for the weekend.
Robbie is rude to Ray, calling Ray by his
first name. Rachel is a little more excited to
see Ray hugging him. Catherine and her husband
accompany the kids and see that Ray's house
is disorganized, having no food in the fridge.
Robbie and Rachel settle in their old room, and
Catherine informs Ray about the kids' schooling.
Ray then walks Catherine out, and she informs
him they'll be in Boston at her parents' house.
Ray assures Catherine that she
has nothing to worry about as he
can handle a weekend with the kids.
Catherine leaves, and Ray listens to
news reports about strange lightning storms
happening in different countries worldwide.
Ray invites Robbie outside to play catch, trying
to connect with him, but the game gets heated
when Robbie tells Ray he hates visiting him. Ray
accidentally breaks a window, and Robbie heads in.
Rachel asks for food, but Ray decides to head to
bed, telling Rachel to order anything she wants.
Ray awakens a few hours later and eats with
Rachel. He calls out to Robbie, but Rachel
tells him Robbie took Ray’s car and drove out.
Ray rushes outside and sees his car gone. He
looks around and sees people on the street
all staring at a swirling vortex in the sky.
Ray talks to the neighbors, saying they’ve never
seen anything like it, especially as it’s summer.
They head to the backyard to get a better look.
The wind starts blowing, and Ray notes that
the wind is oddly blowing towards the storm.
Rachel joins Ray when the wind suddenly stops,
and everything goes silent. Lightning then starts
hitting the ground. Rachel begs Ray to head back
inside, and Ray takes her in as soon as he notices
the lightning strikes getting more frequent.
They hide under the kitchen table, and Ray
notices they haven’t heard any thunder.
The lightning keeps striking,
hitting the same spot every time.
The lightning finally stops, and Ray looks around
the house to check for any damages and sees the
power has gone out. He also sees his cellphone no
longer working, and even his watch has stopped.
Ray steps outside and sees dozens
of cars all stopped in the middle
of the road. A neighbor tells Ray all of the
electronics are either dead or shorted out.
He runs into Robbie, apologizing, but Ray tells
him to head home as soon as possible. Robbie says
he was near the place where the lightning
hit and counted over twenty-six lightning
strikes on one spot. He passes by a mechanic shop,
and his mechanic friend tells him the same thing.
Ray then suggests replacing a specific part
on one of the older cars to get it to work.
Ray proceeds to the center of town
and sees a crowd gathering at the
place where all the lightning hit. Ray
joins the crowd and sees a hole on the
ground surrounded by cracked asphalt and
concrete. They hear rumbling from below,
and police officers note that there are no
pipes, subways, or any underground infrastructure
that would cause a rumble. The rumbling
intensifies until cracks form on the ground.
The crowd steps back, but the rumbling
continues, and the ground begins cracking.
People start running away as windows break and
buildings start shaking. The shaking continues
until the cracks form a massive circular disk in
the middle of the street. The disk rotates and
implodes with a loud roar. A gigantic mechanical
tentacle reaches out from the smoke and rubble,
stepping out of the hole. Ray narrowly escapes,
crawling out of the way before the tentacle drops.
The shaking pauses, and the crowd regathers at
the edge of the disk. A loud mechanical whirring
sound fills the air, increasing in intensity
until a massive machine rises from the hole.
The machine erects itself on three legs,
towering several hundred feet. The people
stare in awe as the tripod looms over them,
but a deafening siren comes from the machine.
Appendages appear on the tripod, and a lethal heat
ray beams onto the people below. The crowds start
panicking and running in different directions,
but the machine continues its onslaught,
illuminating the humans with its powerful
heat ray, vaporizing them in an instant.
Ray runs as fast as he can, dodging the heat ray,
swerving left and right. He manages to steer clear
of the tripod’s path of destruction, watching it
make its way through the city. Ray arrives back
home in complete shock, unable to process what had
happened. Robbie asks Ray, but Ray remains silent.
He washes in the bathroom and composes
himself. He then orders Robbie to collect
as much food as possible and heads to his
bedroom to retrieve a gun. They head out to
the mechanic shop and find a working car. They
get in, and the mechanic tries to stop them.
Ray asks his friend to get into the car with
them, but it appears that the mechanic has no idea
of what had happened. The tripod appears in the
distance, and Ray starts the car and speeds away.
Ray drives away as the tripod
wreaks havoc behind them.
Ray manages to reach the highway, swerving through
parked cars and pedestrians. He tells Robbie that
they’re being attacked, but Ray is in disbelief,
unsure how to refer to whatever is attacking them.
He explains the tripod came from the ground and
theorizes the lightning strikes could have been
a means to activate the machines. Ray plans to
drive back to Catherine’s house but sees it empty.
Ray tells them Catherine is in
Boston at their grandparents’ house.
They head to the basement, thinking it
would be a safer place for them to sleep in.
They try to get some rest but are awakened by
strange sounds and lights coming from the window.
Suddenly, a loud whirring sound is
heard, and the ground starts trembling.
They all run into a lower part of the basement,
closing the door as fire engulfs the basement.
Morning comes, and Ray goes out to see what
has happened. He discovers the house had been
destroyed, and a massive flaming airplane
engine sits in the living room. He walks
out and finds a massive plane crash. He sees
someone dragging an airplane food closet out,
and a news media camera crew appears to
help collect the food. The reporter tells
Ray they were with the military, tasked
to document the army fighting the tripods.
She says the tripods have a shield, rendering
bombs and missiles useless against them.
They’ve lost communication with cities all
around the world, and she shows Ray footage
of dozens of tripods decimating a city. She
then shows him slowed-down footage of the
lightning strikes revealing metal pods
digging into the ground every time the
lightning hit. The news crew then prepares to
depart, leaving Ray to tend to his children.
Ray decides to use back roads and country
roads, avoiding big cities and main highways,
hiding what appears to be the only working car
in miles. Robbie thinks they should head back and
fight the invaders. They stop for a bathroom
break, and Rachel heads deep into the woods
to pee. She ends up at a riverbank where she
sees scores of bodies floating down the river.
Ray arrives just in time to shield her
eyes, but she had already seen too much.
Military trucks pass by, and Robbie begs to be
picked up, eager to join the fight. Ray shouts
at him, trying to dissuade him, but Robbie ignores
him. Robbie then gets angry with Ray, telling Ray
that they’re only going to Boston so that Ray can
leave them with Catherine, saying Ray wants to
abandon his responsibilities as a father again.
Robbie finally stops when Rachel starts crying,
asking her brother who would take care of her
if he leaves. They then drive away in silence.
They reach a ferry town, and people start
banging on their car, begging to be let on.
The crowd gets more aggressive, some of them
getting on the car’s hood. One person throws a
rock at the windshield, causing Ray to crash into
a pole. The crowd immediately swarms the vehicle,
and Robbie and Ray get dragged out, but Rachel
gets trapped inside. Ray starts fighting the
crowd and gets the upper hand when he pulls
out his gun and fires several warning shots.
The crowd backs away, and Robbie steps
out from the crowd with a bleeding nose.
Another man points a gun at Ray, and Ray
drops his gun, agreeing to give up the car.
Ray, Robbie, and Rachel leave, but a man picks
up Ray’s gun and eyes the car’s new owner.
The three seek refuge at an abandoned diner,
and as the car passes, the man who had picked
up Ray’s gun shoots the man driving. Rachel sobs
into Robbie’s arms while Robbie watches the crowd
disappear with the car. The family then continues
on foot to the ferry docks, planning to cross the
Hudson River to Boston. They reach a queue for
the ferry when one of Ray’s old friends calls him.
She’s glad to see Ray and tells him she’s
also trying to get her daughter to safety.
As they talk, Rachel spots several
flocks of birds flying away.
In the distance, Rachel sees the
trees swaying. Ray notices the crowd
all staring behind them, and he sees a
massive tripod looming over the town.
People start forcing their way into the ferries,
but the captain decides they need to leave.
The soldiers hold people back as the ferry
detaches from the dock. More tripods appear,
and people pour into the docks, desperate to
board the ferries. Ray sneaks past the guards, and
they board the ferry, but Ray’s friend gets left
behind. The ferry casts off, its engines straining
to accelerate. The captain thinks they’re
safe, but he sees lights from under the water.
The water starts swirling, and a tripod rises from
the river. The tripod capsizes the ferry, dumping
cars and people into the river. Ray manages to
hold onto Robbie and Rachel, and they make their
way to the riverbanks. As they swim away, they
see people getting snatched up by the tripods.
They reach the far end of the river and watch
helplessly as several tripods snatch humans up
from the river. Then, on the opposite side,
more tripods appear using their heat rays
to vaporize the escaping civilians. The
family continues running into the woods.
The following day, they walk through the
countryside, joining other refugees. They
see explosions in the distance, and Robbie
hurries to get a better look. The rest of the
crowd runs to witness the fight, and fighter jets,
military trucks, and tanks roll in. Ray calls out,
but Robbie ignores him. Soldiers hold Robbie and
other people back, and Ray catches up to him.
The soldiers are shouting orders at each
other, saying their firepower is ineffective.
They resort to holding the tripods back
enough for civilians to get to safety.
Ray tries knocking sense into Robbie, but Robbie
doesn’t listen, mesmerized by the gunshot and
explosions. Rachel, who Ray left near a fallen
tree, watches as attack helicopters and missiles
dart across the sky. Ray pins Robbie down, and
Robbie pleads with Ray to let him go. Robbie says
he needs to see and be part of the initiative
to fight back. Ray sees Rachel approached by
strangers and realizes he needs to let Robbie
go. Robbie and Ray share a look before Ray runs
after Rachel. Robbie runs into the firefight
while Ray retrieves Rachel from the strangers.
He then sees a massive fireball enveloping the
hillside before tripods rise from the inferno.
Ray sees a man with a shotgun inviting
him in for shelter and hurries.
They take refuge in the man’s basement, escaping
the tripod onslaught. Ray tries to get Rachel to
sleep, but Rachel has trouble sleeping. Ray then
decides to sing her a short lullaby, and Rachel
dozes off with tears in her eyes. Ray talks with
the man who introduces himself as Harlan. Harlan
says he’s lost his whole family and tells Ray
he has enough water and food to last them weeks.
Ray then begins monologuing about how the invaders
had prepared for the invasion for a long time.
The tripods had been buried thousands,
possibly millions of years ago.
He doesn’t consider the invasion a war but
an extermination. Harlan says he’s not one
to back down and tells Ray he wants to fight back.
Harlan reveals that he called Ray into his house
not to provide shelter but as an invitation
to join him in his fight against the tripods.
Ray realizes he has made a grievous mistake,
seeing that Harlan has developed delusions,
turning suicidal. Ray is terrified
that he may have accidentally brought
himself and Rachel into a situation
just as worse as facing the tripods.
Ray hears loud noises coming from outside and
sees the tripods digging through the soil.
Not long after, he notices strange red roots
forming all around the walls of the basement.
He sees Harlan talking to Rachel, telling Rachel
he’ll take care of her if something happens to
Ray. Ray takes Rachel away immediately, but before
they start arguing, the tripods stop making noise,
and Ray sees an alien probe enter the basement.
The probe looks like a massive floating snake with
lights at the end. Ray takes Rachel, and they
creep around the basement, keen to avoid the
tripod probe. They change location multiple times,
hiding in different spots, and Ray sees Harlan
wielding an ax, ready to strike at the probe. Ray
begs him not to do it, and Harlan hesitates. They
end up hiding in a corner, using a mirror to trick
the probe. Finding nothing, the probe leaves.
Ray, Rachel, and Harlan think they’re safe,
but they hear something descending from above.
Finally, they lay eyes on the creatures
operating the tripods. The aliens look
nothing like any creature on Earth, walking
on three legs and having smaller mandibles.
They have big triangular heads, large
eyes, and are built thin and bony. The
aliens move around the basement, seemingly
behaving like explorers rather than hunters.
Harlan loads his shotgun and aims it at the
aliens, but Ray comes in just in time to stop him.
The two struggle, Ray is determined to keep their
presence hidden, and Harlan is similarly motivated
to kill the aliens. The booming sound of a
tripod siren sounds and the aliens hurry back up.
Harlan then threatens Ray, calling
him a coward. He teases Ray,
saying Ray might even prefer becoming
the aliens’ pet rather than fight back.
Not long after their close call with the aliens,
Harlan calls Ray, and they witness a man getting
the blood sucked out of him. Ray realizes that
the strange red roots and the loud continuous
sound they’ve heard come from the tripods
using human blood to terraform the ground,
turning it similar to whatever planet
they came from. Harlan runs away,
frantically trying to dig a tunnel, shouting
how he’d never let the aliens get his blood.
Ray is concerned Harlan is making too
much noise, but Harlan gets more frantic,
shouting louder. Ray grabs Harlan, but Harlan
hits him with a shovel. Ray realizes Harlan
won’t stop screaming and decides to resort
to more drastic actions to keep him quiet.
Ray places a blindfold on Rachel, telling
her to hum a song and cover her ears before
he returns to Harlan. Struggling and
grunting are heard from the other room,
and Rachel tries her best to drown
out the noise. Things quiet down,
and Ray emerges triumphant but looks as if he
had suffered the greatest defeat of his life.
That night, Rachel has trouble sleeping. She sits
up and is in complete shock, going face to face
with the alien probe. Ray begins hacking at the
probe with the ax, and Rachel runs up the stairs.
The probe retracts, but Ray discovers Rachel is
missing. He runs up after her, leaving the house,
and sees the landscape covered in red tendrils
and roots. He heads up a hill and sees the
tripods have terraformed a massive expanse of
land as far as he could see, all bathed in red.
A tripod appears, and Ray runs, finding cover in a
car. The tripod flips the car over before leaving
Ray and targeting Rachel instead. The tripod
snatches Rachel up and starts walking away. Ray
chases it, shouting. He finds a bundle of grenades
in a military car and starts throwing it at the
tripod. The grenade detonates upon hitting the
tripod’s shield, but it has successfully grabbed
its attention. The tripod turns and picks up
Ray, depositing him in a pod with other captives.
The tripod appears to be carrying dozens of
people in pods, snatching people up at intervals,
using their blood as fuel for the massive
machine. Ray finds Rachel, but she is in shock.
A tentacle reaches down from the machine,
picking out another human, and it grabs Ray.
Ray gets pulled up, but he takes the grenades
with him. A soldier jumps, grabbing Ray’s arm,
trying to pull him back down. The rest of the
captives help, and they successfully save Ray.
Ray spits out the pins from the grenades, and the
soldier tells everyone to brace for an explosion.
The grenades detonate, causing a
chain of explosions inside the tripod.
The massive machine topples
down, dropping its captives.
Ray and Rachel continue walking until they reach
Boston. At the city, they discover a tripod that
had fallen, resting on the side of a building. Ray
asks a soldier what had happened, and according
to him, the tripod started moving erratically in
circles before falling on itself and ending up on
the building. Ray also sees the roots covering
the streets have started withering and dying.
The refugees all take caution when they hear a
tripod walking near. The civilians keep walking
as the soldiers anticipate a fight. Ray spots
a flock of birds resting on the tripod, and he
calls out to one of the soldiers, telling them the
tripod has no shields. The commander sees this and
orders his troops to begin firing at the tripod.
To their surprise, the missiles hit. They start
firing at the tripod, giving it all they have.
More missiles hit, and the tripod falls. Soldiers
approach the fallen tripod, and a hatch opens
to reveal its dying occupant, its limbs frail.
Ray finally arrives at Catherine’s parents’ home,
and he finds everyone safe. Rachel runs
to her mother, and, to Ray’s surprise,
Robbie steps out of the house, unharmed.
The two embrace, finally reunited.
The invaders arrived with every intent to
eliminate and enslave humans, using their superior
technology and weaponry to bring humanity to its
knees. After all the weapons of man had failed,
the invaders’ end came at the hands of the
smallest creatures on the planet, bacteria.